layout = "post"
title = "Git Tips"
created = "2022-01-31"
updated = "2022-01-31"
tags = "#git"
markdown = """
**When** I first started programming more than a decade ago, I didn't know there were version control
systems. I was simply copying, pasting code using temporary files. It was primitive even for a
caveman. After finding out about version control systems a few years into my career, I've realized how
fundemental they are in a programmer's toolbox. Nowadays, I use VCS, mainly git, for anything
text, from my journal to the keto recipes.

Here are some of the git commands I use the most for future reference.

**git switch:** I found about this while writing this post and it made a lot of sense that I've decided
to include it. `git switch <branch>` is same as `git checkout <branch>`.

**git restore:** This one takes place of git checkout <path>
I've never realized that git checkout had so many uses with different flags. It is stupid and adding
new commands makes a lot of sense.

**git rebase:**

**git bisect:** This is used to pinpoint a commit where a specific thing is introduced. It usually is
a bug but you can search for anything since it is just a binary search. So next time you are looking
for a bug in the previous commits remember this command instead of randomly picking commits or trying
to do a binary search using your primitive brain. I did that many times.

**git fetch --prune:** I use this to clean the branch references deleted by others. I think most of
the git clients do this automatically but since I only use terminal, I have to do it every once in a while.

**git stash:** I use stashing to remove my changes very quickly without losing them. I also different implementations of the same feature when performance test is necessary. Creating branches might be overkill.
"""